REAL ID UPDATE
By May 7, 2025, standard driver licenses will no longer be an acceptable form of identification for
boarding domestic flights and entering some secure federal facilities, like military bases and nuclear
power plants. Go to Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) website (www.tsa.gov) for a complete list
of federally approved forms of identification.
Even though the effective date for REAL ID is May 7, 2025 it only affects people who want to travel by
plane or access certain secure federal facilities. A standard driver license will work for the U.S. travel like
driving in Washington, across state lines, or riding a train.
Washington’s enhanced driver licenses (EDLs) are REAL ID compliant and valid for air travel within the
United States.
A full list of document options you need to obtain an enhanced driver license or ID card is available at
www.dol.wa.gov/driverlicense/edlget.html.
Visit www.realidwa.com, to view informational videos, take a quiz to help determine which ID you need,
and learn more about REAL ID.
Abstract of driving record – We keep a record of license applications, traffic infractions, convictions for
motor vehicle violations, collision involvement, and Failure-to-Appear notices for every driver in the state.
For a fee, we are allowed to provide a copy of your record to you, an insurance carrier, an employer, and
some volunteer organizations, attorneys, governmental agencies, drug/alcohol treatment agencies, and
school districts where you provide transportation. A certified record is also available online at www.dol.
wa.gov.
Insurance Required
If you operate a motor vehicle registered in this state, you must have liability insurance and carry proof
that you have such insurance. Drivers of government vehicles, mopeds, and common or contract carrier
vehicles are exempt from this insurance requirement.
CHILD RESTRAINT UPDATES
• Infants and children under two must use a child safety restraint system in the rear-facing position.
• Children under four who have outgrown the height and weight recommendations of the child safety seat
manufacture for rear facing must continue to use a child safety restraint system in the forward-facing
position.
• Children four or older, until they are 4’9” tall and can properly fit the vehicle lap and shoulder belt with
lap belt across their lap with knees fully bent at the end of seat and shoulder belt coming across the
shoulder and not the neck, must use a booster seat. They should not move to a seat belt before they
are ready per height and age, typically between 8 and 12 years.
• The restraint system must be used exactly and according to BOTH the safety seat AND vehicle
manufacturer’s instructions.
• Vehicles equipped with lap-only seat belts are exempt from the requirement to use a booster seat.
• Children who have reached the maximum recommended weight of the booster seat manufacturer or are at least 4’9” who wear a seat belt, MUST use it correctly (never under the arm or behind the back) or continue to use a child safety restraint.
• A BOOSTER SEAT positions the seat belt so that it fits properly over the stronger parts of your child’s body, the hips and shoulder, and chest and away from the neck and belly.
• A SEAT BELT should lie across the hip bones and be snug across the shoulder and chest to restrain the child safely in a crash. It should not rest on the stomach area or across the neck.
• You should keep your child in each stage as long as they are within the manufacturer’s weight and height limits for that child seat or booster even if they are older than the law minimums for maximum safety.
RULES OF THE ROAD
There are traffic rules that say where, when, and how fast you can drive. These rules help keep traffic moving safely. Rules of the road include traffic control devices, right-of-way, and parking rules.
Move Over/Slow Down law: When passing emergency response vehicles on the side of the road with flashing lights activated, move over one lane if possible, and if not, then reduce your speed to 10 mph below the posted speed limit. Emergency response vehicles include law enforcement, fire/ambulance, incident response, highway maintenance, utility, solid waste and tow trucks.
Traffic Control Devices
Traffic control devices include traffic signals, signs, and pavement markings, and roundabouts. Traffic control also can be provided by law enforcement, highway construction or maintenance personnel, or school crossing guards.
There are certain drivers and other road users you should give extra room. Some are listed here.
Work zones and emergency work crews with flashing lights – Crews in work zones require extra caution as travelers pass by. Motorists must obey all directions and reduce speeds in any marked work zone – for the safety of crews and everyone on the roadway. Traffic fines can double in a work zone area.